# This is a branch program to calculate the contact maps based on the trajectories of the MD simulation
Usage:
```
python calContactMap.py [-C Celltype] [-n runnumber] [-j jobname] [-u username] [-i partition] [-c chromosome_id_array]
```
or default:
```
python calContactMap.py
```
Note items in [] are optional. By default is calculating: Gm12878, chromosome 1, 8 parallel running. 

**[Celltype]** can be selected from the following list (case sensitive):
>Gm12878  
>H1hesc  
>Hela  
>Hepg2  
>Huvec  
>K562

**[runnumber]** specifies the number of parallel running. By default, the value is 8. 

**[jobname]** specifies the name of the job on the cluster.  

**[number_of_cpu]** **[partition]** should be specified based on the cluster account and available cluster partition.  

**chromosome id array]** can be any non-repeated subset selected from:
>1 ~ 22

The processed output of the individual contact maps are located in the folder `./[Celltype]/[chrId]/[runId]/`, the combined maps are located in the folder `./cmap/`.  

The manual would be available by executing:  
```
python calContactMap.py -h
```

The core program to calculate the contact map from trajectory files is a FORTRAN code located at `./src/FORTRAN/cmap.f90`. It has been compiled as './src/FORTRAN/cmap' with ifort compiler. It can also be compiled with gfortran, but please have either of these compilers installed beforehand. 

To visualize the contact maps, a MATLAB script is provided located at `./src/MATLAB/main.m`. Note that the corresponding raw Hi-C maps with consistent resolution need to be downloaded beforehand, and the path for the Hi-C maps needs to be indicated when executing the MATLAB script. The raw Hi-C maps can be downloaded from:  
>Rao, Suhas S.P. et al. *Cell* **159**, 1665-1680 (2014).

To visualize the structure colored by chromatin states, VMD scripts for individual chromosomes are provided, and can be generated by using the code that is provided at `./src/VMD/VMDmain.py`, where the input are also **[Celltype]** and **chromosome id array]**.  
```
python VMDmain.py [-C Celltype] [-c chromosome_id_array]
```
The manual would be available by executing:  
```
python VMDmain.py -h
```

After generating the VMD scripts and in order to visualize the structure, open the VMD software (which can be downloaded from [http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/vmd/](http://www.ks.uiuc.edu/Research/vmd/)) and click under `Extension/TK Console` option, go to the folder: `./src/VMD/VMDScript/`, find the VMD script for the corresponding chromosome. E.g., for Gm12878, chromosome 1, execute the following command in the VMD console:
```
play VMDColor_Gm12878_chr1.vmd
```
where a chromosome structure colored by chromatin states should be appearing in the display window. Then find and go to the path where the simulated .dcd file (trajectory) is located. E.g., for Gm12878, chromosome 1, 1st parallel running, it should be located in the folder `/runSimulation/run_folder/Gm12878/chr1/run00/`, and execute the following command in the VMD console:
```
animate read dcd DUMP_FILE.dcd 
```
where the trajectory would be loaded and appearing in the display window.
